README.md, before:

# trip-organizer

A lightweight mobile-first, desktop-unfriendly app with serverless API that keeps important travel information accessible on the go, with the option to log expenses. Simple password lock.
Site is live but behind password lock. Server functions not included in public repo.

## Details

Web app built with:

-   React + TypeScript
-   Vite
-   MongoDb
-   Netlify-cli
-   pagecrypt for convenient pw (this is not particularly robust). Can update with Identity via Netlify.

UI libraries:

-   Ant Design
-   AG Grid (probably overkill)

Free icons from FlatIcon and some personal graphics

Additional art, etc. credits to the AIC (Art Institute of Chicago) API
Potential img hosting: PixaBay

The desktop UX is trash because time crunch lol! Someday we'll do breakpoints again...

## API

-   [x] Get, Add, Update, Delete travel action items.
-   [x] Get, Add, Update, Delete expense items on the go.
    -   [x] CSV export.

## To dos

-   [x] Fix visual problems. **Ish?** Mobile only.
-   [ ] Data entry.

Bonus round:

-   [ ] User avatar/username selection (user item). Get req only for now.
-   [ ] Update graphics.
-   [ ] Integrate better with Google maps.
-   [ ] Checklist/todos (checklist item).
-   [ ] Add activity rating field (under Update endpt)

## Requirements

Add your own API key in environment variables for the Netlify functions.

## Learnings

Mostly sticking to a consistent workflow/order of operations. General directory structure working from outside-in,

1. Define data structures (only two here). Even if the database doesn't enforce a schema, be consistent and work with TypeScript.
2. Define basic endpoints needed for API.
3. Write functions and test API with Postman.
4. Inside server directory (update your .gitignore), create front-end directories.
5. Design main workflows/pages. This was essentially a single page app, with few enough conditionals that I didn't bother using React Router. Although I could probably have used Context.
6. Write components and very wasteful (S)CSS.
7. Change your mind a few times about how to handle certain user flows.
8. Rewrite the build and deploy scripts.
9. Fiddle with the design for some hours using browser dev tools.
10. Deploy and check functionality.

If I had to restart, I would not have two package.json ...
I didn't end up getting the Vite dev environment to play more nicely with the serverless functions. Is Hono worth looking at?

## Future documentation/etc

Create wrapper for Netlify serverless function + Mongo Data API.

## V1

Left to right, top to bottom: trip list for user > activities list > activity detail > expenses viewer (exportable + can add) > editing expense > add new activity

[![v1-screens](https://i.postimg.cc/bwGLX9nb/v1-screens.png)](https://i.postimg.cc/bwGLX9nb/v1-screens.png)

Commit message:

added reviews feature, updated README

README.md, after:

# trip-organizer

A lightweight mobile-first, desktop-unfriendly app with serverless API that keeps important travel information accessible on the go, with the option to log expenses. Simple password lock.
Site is live but behind password lock. Server functions not included in public repo.

## Details

Web app built with:

-   React + TypeScript
-   Vite
-   MongoDb
-   Netlify-cli
-   pagecrypt for convenient pw (this is not particularly robust). Can update with Identity via Netlify.

UI libraries:

-   Ant Design
-   AG Grid (probably overkill)

Free icons from FlatIcon and some personal graphics

Additional art, etc. credits to the AIC (Art Institute of Chicago) API
Potential img hosting: PixaBay

The desktop UX is trash because time crunch lol! Someday we'll do breakpoints again...

## API

-   [x] Get, Add, Update, Delete travel action items.
-   [x] Get, Add, Update, Delete expense items on the go.
    -   [x] CSV export.
-   [ ] Make trip reviews visible to all.
-   [ ] Add role-based restrictions for trip updates.

**Latest updatees**

-   Made trip_activities collection to conform with rest of collections.
-   Simplified endpoint definitions.
-   Created trip_reviews and flows to add and update trip review.

## To dos

-   [x] Fix visual problems. **Ish?** Mobile only.
-   [ ] Data entry.
-   [ ] Clean up SCSS /repetitiveness.

Bonus round:

-   [ ] User avatar/username selection (user item). Get req only for now.
-   [ ] Update graphics.
-   [ ] Integrate better with Google maps.
-   [ ] Checklist/todos (checklist item).
-   [x] Add activity rating field (under Update endpt). **Created as trip review**

## Requirements

Add your own API key in environment variables for the Netlify functions.

## Learnings

Mostly sticking to a consistent workflow/order of operations. General directory structure working from outside-in,

1. Define data structures (only two here). Even if the database doesn't enforce a schema, be consistent and work with TypeScript.
2. Define basic endpoints needed for API.
3. Write functions and test API with Postman.
4. Inside server directory (update your .gitignore), create front-end directories.
5. Design main workflows/pages. This was essentially a single page app, with few enough conditionals that I didn't bother using React Router. **Mild regrets about this now.**
6. Write components and very wasteful (S)CSS.
7. Change your mind a few times about how to handle certain user flows.
8. Rewrite the build and deploy scripts.
9. Fiddle with the design for some hours using browser dev tools.
10. Deploy and check functionality.

If I had to restart,

-   I would not have ended up with two package.json ...
    I didn't end up getting the Vite dev environment to play more nicely with the serverless functions. Is Hono worth looking at?

-   Try a relational database.
    Mongo is familiar but the more I worked on this, the less it made sense that these documents were all together. Very repetitive storage and requesting.

## Future documentation/etc

Create wrapper for Netlify serverless function + Mongo Data API.

## V1

Left to right, top to bottom: trip list for user > activities list > activity detail > expenses viewer (exportable + can add) > editing expense > add new activity

[![v1-screens](https://i.postimg.cc/bwGLX9nb/v1-screens.png)](https://i.postimg.cc/bwGLX9nb/v1-screens.png)
